Come back here!
Don't run! Come back!
Come back!
You guys, come on!
Benjamin, hurry up, please!
I had him and he got away!
Where's Baez?
Baez! Baez!
He ran off, did you see him?
What's he look like?
- I gave you the photo!
- I mean how tall is he?
Medium-height, skinny... What are
they doing? He's getting away!
I can't take it, Benjamin.
What's he look like, he asks!
- He should have been there, not us!
- He doesn't know him, we do!
Why didn't you give him the photo?
Go to hell, you motherfucker!
Can't I take a crap in peace?
Come out!
Fuck off! It's occupied!
Come on out, the cops are here.
Nothing will happen to you.
What police?
Quit fucking around.
Pablo!
Sorry. How's it going?
- I'm waiting for Sandoval.
- What for?
I play the nice guy,
then he comes in...
I'll explain later,
it's a routine we have.
Oldest trick in the book. You can't
question him without thejudge.
Actually, we have to pull it off
before he gets here.
Questioning a prisoner
with no lawyer or judge?
Ordoñez! You seen Sandoval?
- He left a while ago.
- Damn it.
It won't stand up.
What will you charge him with?
What do you mean?
You think it's little to go on?
Looking at the victim in a photo?
Yes, it is.
That's why we have to soften him up.
What if it's not him?
- Don't look at me like that.
- Eduardo!
- What ifit's not him?
- Of course it is.
- Yes, Counselor?
- Don't call me that. Go get Sandoval.
- Should I take a taxi?
- Yes. No, no.
He goes to Robertino's
in the morning.
No. Wait, Eduardo.
What are you doing?
Sorry, sorry.
It's him.
- How do you know?
- I don't know.
- See?
- I don't know how I know, but I know.
How?
Gomez, Isidoro Nestor.
I.D. Number.
10,740,925.
- Marital status?
- Single.
Address?
Mocoretá 2428, Isidro Casanova.
What train do you take into town?
I don't take the train.
I take the bus.
What's the problem?
Mo...
core...
This typewriter is no good.
The "A" doesn't work.
Wait, hold on.
What is this about?
Please, I beg you.
You're implicated in the Liliana
Colotto case, rape and homicide.
It happened on June 21st, 1974.
Actually, you're the accused.
I'm going to take your statement.
- You'll be assigned a public defender.
- Wait, wait, wait.
Liliana Colotto?
I knew her back in Chivilcoy.
What happened to her?
Tell me, Gomez.
Why do you think you've spent 3 days
behind bars?
I have no idea.
I was at the match...
- Yeah, and you took off running.
- What would you do?
Two crazy-looking guys suddenly
jump you... What happened to Liliana?
Look, Gomez, don't...
You know as well as I do
you raped and killed her.
Liliana?
Are you serious?
I would never do that.
I haven't set foot in Chivilcoy
in over a year, I can prove it.
We looked for you
a week afterthe homicide
and you disappeared,
from a hostal and a job.
What hostal?
I never left any hostal.
Gomez, don't play dumb.
- The hostal on Piedras.
- That was a year ago!
I left because I couldn't afford it.
- And your job?
- I found one that paid better.
What's that got to do with Liliana?
I've known her my whole life,
she's a friend from my childhood.
They can't find Sandoval.
- What?
- They can't fínd Sandoval.
Okay, let me think...
Listen.
Fortuna should be here any minute.
Please, wait for him.
Yes, you could...
You could be right.
It might be preferable...
more practical...
Let me see, one second.
Look, Gomez.
The judge handling your case
will be here soon,
so we're going to wait for him.
Ma'am?
Sorry to interrupt, deputy,
I mean, Counselor.
I know you're handling this case.
But...
this kid couldn't have done it.
We'll talk outside.
Wait, just a minute.
Look at him.
This kid couldn't have done it.
Let me see the autopsy.
The Colotto girl...
Here she is. 5 feet 6,
128 pounds.
Look what he did to her.
I'm sorry, Gomez.
But I don't buy it.
The Amazon and the Pigmy?
Besides, she was a beautiful woman.
Please,
look at this face.
A beauty like her
isn't within just anyone's reach.
It takes a real man
to hook a woman like that.
You think so?
I mean...
The door wasn't forced.
That means she knew her assailant.
Yes.
But there's no way such a woman
would ever remember this twinkie.
Unless she was a hooker.
Some guys you only do for money.
Who is she?
Keep your fucking mouth shut.
No, she was a decent girl,
I assure you.
I agree with the kid about that.
She was two-timing that bank clerk
for sure.
I'll bet his horns were so big
he needed a convertible.
What are you laughing at,
retard?
That guy who gave testimony
last time.
- Sandoval?
- Right. I bet it was him.
He was her lover.
Tall, good-looking, broad shoulders.
A man truly capable of
warming up a woman.
Look at this pussy.
I'll bet when she saw him
she thought,
"Oh, no, it's that schmuck
who always makes
mushy faces in all the photos."
Isn't that right?
Yes or no?
I caught you, motherfucker!
Get him out ofhere!
I caught you!
Take him away, please.
You people are crazy.
You're crazy.
Listen, Benjamin.
"The damage to the right
parietal bone
demonstrates the assailant had
extraordinary upper body strength."
Look.
Two noodles.
"Likewise, due to the depth
of her vaginal injuries,
we may deduce that the assailant
was very well-endowed."
Obviously they're not talking about
this microbe. He must have a peanut.
There it is, bitch.
How do you like it?
Sweetheart,
you'll never reach the piñata.
First, you're too short.
Second, you're not man enough
for a real woman like me.
Not man enough?
Fucking bitch!
I fucked the shit out of her!
That bitch!
I fucked her brains out!
Stop, stop, let him go...
Let him go, Benjamin.
Let go of me!
Touch her and I'll kill you.
I'll kill you!
Let go of me!
Are you Esposito?
Are you Esposito or not?
- Hello?
- Hi, it's me. Did I wake you?
No, I was...
working a bit.
Why are you up so late?
I was thinking...
- You don't say.
- Yeah, silly.
No, about the novel.
I want to read ¡t when
it's finished.
Great, I'd love that.
Sure you don't want to talk
a little while?
No, I'll drink my tea
and see if I can get back to sleep.
Okay.
- Bye.
Irene, the dressmaker is here.
Look, she made the cape
like you wanted.
Come and try it on.
I'll be right in.
Hello?
Morales, how are you?
It's been ages, what a surprise!
Yeah, I'm watching it,
but I turned it down.
What?
And also, thanks to them,
we can achieve
many things, because people
can't do it all on their own.
Good morning. Miss Menendez Hastings
from Court 42.
We're here to see Mr. Romano.
He's very busy.
What's it about?
Sir! Sir! You can't go in there!
I'll leave my credentials,
don't worry.
These two, raising their hands.
I want you to get them.
What are you doing here?
Are you crazy?
No, you are.
- Ma'am.
- We need to talk to you.
Fellas, would you mind?
If you'd called first,
I'd have had coffee ready.
Isidoro Gomez. Rape and murder,
arrested by the court.
Penitentiaries informed us
he's been freed by Executive Order.
We checked...
and here we are.
Anything to say?
Yeah, sure. That you two
need to get out more.
Justice is nothing but an island.
This is the real world.
While you two are shooting birds,
we're in here,
fighting in the middle
of thejungle.
Gomez, Gomez, Gomez...
Yes.
He started working for us
when he was in jail.
He'd give us information,
spy on young guerrillas...
He did good work.
We like him.
What's the problem?
Do you realize what you're saying?
He confessed. He's a convicted
murderer.
Perhaps, but he's also
intelligent and brave.
He can break into a home
and get the job done.
His personal life
is his own business, right?
With all the subversives
out there... Who cares?
If we only used good guys...
He was arrested under
Judge Fortuna's jurisdiction...
Do you think I don't know you let
him go to get back at me?
You think I'm stupid?
That's two questions.
Which one shall I answer fírst?
- Is that true?
- Ma'am...
Would you do me a favor?
Stay out of it.
What are you gonna do,
file an appeal?
No offense, but there's nothing
you can do.
Except go back to your office,
take a seat, and watch and learn.
They don't teach the new Argentina
at Harvard.
And why do you come with her?
You think it gives you immunity?
Leave her alone,
she's out of your league.
She studied law, you barely finished
high school. She's young, you're old.
She's rich, you're poor.
She's Menendez Hastings
and you're Esposito, a zero.
She's untouchable, you aren't.
Let her go back to her world.
But if you have a problem with me,
come alone and we'll settle it.
Come on, Irene.
Let's go.
You do have one thing in common.
Neither of you
can do a thing about it.
You said life.
Yes, he should get life.
Well, then?
These people don't give a shit
about justice.
And where he is now,
we can't get anywhere near him.
Ifl could, what for?
What would I do?
What would four bullets get me?
A lifetime in jail.
Gomez goes free without ever serving
and I spend 50 years
stuck in a cell, envying him.
No.
No, life in prison
would have been fair.
I wish I could help,
but I honestly don't know how.
Who knows?
Some othertime...
Anyway.
- I'll get it.
- No, please.
It's just a coffee.
I'm very grateful for everything
you've done for me.
I wouldn't have made it this far
without you.
I owe you one.
Counselor, sir.
It's about the lgarzabal fíle, sir.
Stop calling me Counselor,
would you already?
If you do it in front of the judge
I'll get in trouble.
What about the fíle?
- Have you made a copy?
- I'm on it.
No, you aren't.
You'd have to be there,
but you're here.
Benjamin.
Yes?
How long before
you talk to me again?
I talk to you every day.
I'm not untouchable.
- Or from another world.
- Lf only you were...
- Irene, let's drop it.
- Drop what?
You're marrying the engineer,
Zapiola
Menendez Urtubiea and so on.
You're notjealous...
For God's sake.
I hope you live happily ever after.
- Any objections?
- No, none.
Go on, object.
Irene,
please.
What are you looking at?
What do you want? Go away.
Come on.
- Where can we meet?
- What for?
So you can present your objections
about my life, my fíancé,
my marriage and anything else
related to the case.
We can meet for coffee after work.
Time?
Eight-thirty. Place?
- The lmmortals.
- The Richmond.
Sorry. My suggestion
wasn't very elegant.
No, Benjamin.
Somewhere far from here.
Who are you spying on?
Sorry. Phone call for you, sir.
From a bar?
Pablo Sandoval.
You cocksucking bastard.
Wash your fucking mouth!
No, Benjamin...
I can't believe they called you.
What happened?
I told everyone
not to bother my friend.
This is a man'sjob!
You're not a man,
you stinking drunk.
What? Me, drunk?
Fuck you! Fascist!
Fascist! He's a Nazi!
He's a Nazi!
Listen, offícer.
We're from Court 42, I'll handle it.
- Come with me.
- Arrest them!
Arrest the motherfuckers!
Show them some fucking justice!
- Fuck you!
- My jacket! My jacket!
You're wearing it.
What time does your wife get home?
At eight.
How odd. There's no answer.
My mouth is dry.
Have you got any?
There's no answer.
Leave that alone.
She's never going to answer.
Why?
Because the phone doesn't work.
What do you mean?
Put that down.
I told you a thousand times,
Benjamin.
I wanted to sue their asses.
And you didn't help me.
That was 6 months ago.
The phone hasn't worked for a year.
They never fixed it.
You can't spend the night here.
Put that down.
Stop touching stuff.
If you ever called me,
you'd know it doesn't work.
Leave that.
What are you looking for?
I wanted to sue them.
Look at me.
- You have a date?
- No, no.
You have a date.
And I'm leaving.
The last thing I need
is you calling me a party pooper.
Too much furniture in here.
- Sit here.
- I always run into shit.
Have a seat until you feel better.
Have a seat.
What time is it?
- I have a watch in the bedroom.
- What bedroom? This is my house.
We're doing great. Just great.
- Take it easy.
- We're doing great.
I'll try to convince your wife
not to kill you.
Call her on the phone.
You said it didn't work.
Mine doesn't work, Benjamin.
Use yours.
Just stay here. Don't touch
anything, don't do anything.
I'll be right back.
- Turn off the light.
- Yes.
We'll catch that son of a bitch.
We'll catch him.
- We were working all day.
- Save it, some othertime.
Let me explain.
- It's the last time.
- Okay, okay.
You could have remembered as well.
Be patient with him, he needs help.
He needs help?
What I mean is if we help him,
it's easier for everyone.
You want to get rid of him.
Don't say that.
What's this?
- What happened?
- Hold on a second.
Pablo?
- What is it?
- I don't know. Pablo?
- Don't scare me.
- Wait there.
Pablo...
- No!
- What is it? What happened?
What happened?
This is madness.
It will be if that bastard
finds you.
- He's gonna go after you.
- No, my father knows who to talk to.
He works for Romano, Romano
won't mess with me. I'll be fíne.
But Jujuy?
For God's sake, Irene.
My cousins are like feudal
lords there. Nobody will touch you.
What will I do in Jujuy?
Same as here. Sign and stamp.
They have your desk ready.
I can't. I have my life here,
I have my old man here,
I have...
I have everything here.
What can we do...
here?
Us.
I mean,
you and me.
There's nothing we can do.
Ciao.
It's a rough draft.
I'll make more.
Your house is exactly
as I imagined it.
How did you imagine it?
Exactly like this.
Exactly like I imagined it.
Sure, I imagined your house
would be totally different.
You've seen my house?
No, I mean unlike this.
Totally different.
What does this mean?
This piece of paper says
"I FEAR."
No, it'sjust something I did...
a writing exercise...
half asleep...
to inspire the imagination...
Never mind.
Okay, shoot.
It's a novel.
It doesn't have to be true,
or even believable.
Yes. No. What?
It isn't believable?
No, Benjamin.
That part when...
when the guy leaves for Jujuy...
- What's the problem?
- Crying like he's all broken up...
Her running on the platform
after the man of her dreams...
Touching hands through the glass
like they're one.
- That's what happened.
- And her crying,
like she knew her fate
was mediocrity
and never loving anyone,
practically falling on the tracks,
proclaiming love she'd never had
the courage to confess...
That's what happened.
Isn't it?
If that's what happened,
why didn't you take me with you?
Dimwit.
How does the case proceed?
I don't know. I can say
he spent 10 years
counting llamas in the Andes.
And when I came back
you were D.A.,
married and with two kids.
Should I put that?
Orthat he came back married
to a rich little Jujuyan princess.
She was wonderful.
It wasn't her fault
I could never love her.
It's a lousy ending.
It's crap.
You see?
I don't want to miss another chance.
How is it possible?
How can I do nothing about it?
I've been asking myself
for 25 years and I've only been able
to come up with one answer.
"Forget it, it was another lifetime.
It's over, don't ask."
It wasn't another lifetime.
It was this one.
It is this one.
Now I want to understand.
How can someone live an empty life?
How do you live a life
full of nothing?
How do you do it?
This is a waste of time.
We'll never find him.
Trust me,
remember how formal he was?
Nobody notifies a change of address.
Mine's from when I danced the pata-pata.
Excuse me.
Gomez, Isidoro. Espora 691,
- province of Chivilcoy.
- You see? That's his mother.
Sir, we are required by law
to notify a change of address.
It's not something we do because
we feel like it. Understand?
- I do now.
- Morales, Ricardo.
There's one, two...
Four, ma'am.
Let's search by I.D. Number.
- What's your fírst number?
- Three, what's yours?
- What do you care?
- What? Can't I?
Here's a 5 and a 6.
Morales, Ricardo Augustin.
He changed addresses in 1975.
Write this down, pata-pata.
Who are you looking for?
Morales.
How are you? Remember me?
Esposito.
From the courts... 25 years ago.
- Quite a surprise.
- I know, sorry.
- How are you?
- Hello.
Long time.
What a surprise.
Yeah.
Come in.
Shall I make coffee?
Coffee?
You're not drinking maté out here?
Out here?
I'm at the bank all day long.
You're still at the bank?
I'll take that coffee.
You moved out here right after.
Yes. I wanted to start over,
from scratch.
That's the good thing
about the bank.
They have branches everywhere.
There's always a branch nobody
wants, so here I am,
with a promotion and everything.
How about that.
Remember Liliana?
Yes, of course.
How are you doing?
Still here.
No, I mean single,
- married...
- No.
No, really.
I think I just... at that point...
just closed shop.
I tried, but you know what?
It's complicated.
- I got married.
- You don't say.
Yeah, for a while.
But it didn't work.
I don't know ifit was me...
It's complicated.
Quite a story.
I can't believe it.
Neverthought I had a novel in me.
You should flesh it out.
It's like a long memo.
Crazy.
I could never forget it.
A mistake.
You should put it behind you.
Trust me.
You came here because of Gomez,
right?
What do you mean?
He was on the loose,
he might come looking for you.
No, no.
I'm not scared of Gomez.
Maybe he's dead.
Maybe.
They came looking for me.
Yes, I know.
- How do you know?
- I just read it.
- They found your friend.
- Oh, right.
Poor Sandoval.
Do you remember Sandoval?
No.
My coworker at the courts.
They came looking for me,
didn't fínd me
and let him have it.
Bastards.
Gomez was never found, right?
Guess.
Those guys always get away with it.
You know, there's something
I need to ask you.
How did you learn to live
without Liliana?
It was 25 years ago, Esposito.
I was sure you wouldn't be able to.
- It was 25 years ago, Esposito.
- Especially with him on the loose.
How did you start over?
It was 25 years ago!
Forget it.
If it weren't for me,
you wouldn't have made it this far.
Rememberthat?
You owe me one.
I don't know what you want me
to say.
You didn't care
the guy got a free ride.
There was nothing I could do.
You spent a year looking forthe guy,
they let him go and you do nothing?
I wasted a year looking for him
and they let him go!
- What can I do?
- That's it?
- Yes!
- The rest of your life behind a desk?
- Look who's talking.
- You're better than I am.
What do you care?
- It's my life, not yours.
- No, Morales.
It's my life too.
Your love forthat woman...
I never saw it again.
In anybody.
Nobody.
Ever.
Get out of my house.
Right now, please.
It's my life, not yours.
I'm sorry.
I'm...
getting old, that's it.
That might be it.
I couldn't stop thinking about it.
Go dwell on it at home.
Gomez didn't kill Sandoval.
So?
He knew us both.
If he'd been there,
he'd have waited for me.
There's something...
I had a couple of photos at home,
of myself.
When Sandoval got killed,
the photos had been turned over.
Nothing else had been touched.
I thought...
I think...
Are you Esposito?
Did you hear what I said, asshole?
- What's going on?
- What are you doing?
Answer me.
Where are you going?
- Here.
- What are you going to do?
I'm going to put on a record.
It's okay.
A record?
Listen to me.
Are you Esposito or not?
Yes, I am.
I'm so ashamed I can't even bring
myself to put flowers on his grave.
Maybe that's not what happened.
Maybe he fell asleep and they
killed him without him even realizing,
somebody knocked over the photos
by accident, bumped into them...
I don't know.
I don't know what to think anymore.
Choose carefully.
Memories are all we end up with.
At least pick the nice ones.
But there's one thing
I know I'll never forget.
The last thing Pablo said to me
the night they killed him.
"Don't worry, Benjamin.
We'll catch that son of a bitch."
And I will.
Lfhe's alive, I will.
Wait.
Come in, sit down.
You can stop looking.
I couldn't go to the authorities.
I knew the guy was untouchable.
But I also knew sooner or later
he'd come looking...
for you.
Hey, Gomez!
I got rid of the body
and obviously he wasn't missed.
Was it worth it?
Forget about it.
Forget it.
Who cares?
My wife is dead.
Your friend is dead.
Gomez is dead too.
They're all dead.
Stop dwelling on it.
You'll start wondering
if you could have stopped it...
You'll have a thousand pasts
and no future.
Forget about it, trust me.
You'll end up with only memories.
I owed you one, right?
Now we're even.
Forget about it.
Forget it.
I couldn't stop thinking about it.
What would four bu/lets getme?
It's my life,
not yours.
Go dwell on it at home.
We'll catch him.
I've been wondering for 25 years.
Ciao.
It wasn't another l¡fetime.
It was this one.
A guy can do anything
to be different.
What would four bullets get me?
But there's one thing he can't change.
Not him, not you, not anybody.
How can someone live
an empty life?
How do you live a life
full of nothing?
How do you do it?
I fucked the shit out of her!
What retribution?
Please...
It's as if his wife's death
just left him there,
stuck in time forever.
My wife is dead.
Your friend is dead.
Gomez is dead too. They're all dead.
They'd give him an injection
and he'd take a nap.
Nobody, Benjamin.
Let him grow old.
Live a life full of nothing.
How did you start over?
That was 25 years ago.
25 years, Esposito.
Forget about it.
Please.
Tell him...
Tell him at least to talk to me.
Please.
You said life.
"I FEAR"
"I LOVE YOU"
- Is she in?
- Yeah, in her office.
You're alive.
Yeah.
I need to talk to you.
- Shall I bring coffee, ma'am?
- Go away.
It'll be complicated.
I don't care.
Shut the door.
THE SECRET OF THEIR EYES